# Hough transforms: lines

## Parametric model

A parametric model can represent a **class of instances** where each is defined by a value of the parameters.

* Line is parametric model, cicle is parametric model.

## Fitting a parametric model

* choose a parametric model to represent a set of features
* Membership criterion is not local
  * can't tell whether a point in the image belongs to a given model just by looking at that point
* Computational complexity is important
  * Not feasiable to examine possible parameter setting


## Voting
**Voting** is a general technique where we let the features vote for all models that are compatible with it.

1. Cycle through features, each casting voites for model parameters.
2. Look for model parameters that receive a lot of votes.

**why voting works?**

* Noise & clutter features will cast votes too, but typically their votes should be inconsistent with the majority of "good" features.
* Ok if some features not observed, as model can span multiple fragment.

## Line Fitting

To fit lines we need to answer a few questions.

* Given points that belong to a line, what is the line?
* How many lines are there?
* Which point belong to which lines?

**Hough Transform:**

`Hough Transform` is a voting technique that can be used to answer all of these

* Each edge point votes for compatible lines
* Look for lines that get many votes.

## Hough space

`Hough(parameter space)`

a line in the image represent the one point in the hough space.
**(ever points in the image give us a line in the hough space)**

```python
y = mx+b --> (m, b)
```

a line in the hough space represents the one point in the hough space.

```python
b = -xm+y --> (x,y)
```

## Polar representation for lines

`d`: perpendicular distance from line to origin.
`theta`:angle the perpendicular makes with the x-axis.
using polar representation to implement the hough code.
